            Foreword: Vice Chair
            
            
            
            
            
               In April 1861, when Abraham Lincoln issued the first call for volunteers for the Union
               Army, my great-great grandfather, Samuel Fletcher Cheney, joined the 21st Ohio Volunteer
               Infantry.  He fought through all four years of the Civil War, from Chickamauga to
               Stones River to Atlanta.  He marched with his unit in the Grand Review of Troops up
               Pennsylvania Avenue in May 1865, past a reviewing stand where President Johnson and
               General Grant were seated.
               
            
            
               Silas Canfield, the regimental historian of the 21st OVI, described the men in the
               unit this way:  
               
            
            
               Industry had taught them perseverance, and they had learned to turn aside for no obstacle.
               Their intelligence gave them a just appreciation of the value and advantage of free
               government, and the necessity of defending and maintaining it, and they enlisted prepared
               to accept all the necessary labors, fatigues, exposures, dangers, and even death for
               the unity of our Nation, and the perpetuity of our institutions.
               1
               
            
            
               I have found myself thinking often, especially since January 6th, of my great-great
               grandfather, and all those in every generation who have sacrificed so much for the
               unity of our Nation and the perpetuity of our institutions. 
               
            
            
               At the heart of our Republic is the guarantee of the peaceful transfer of power. Members
               of Congress are reminded of this every day as we pass through the Capitol Rotunda.
               There, eight magnificent paintings detail the earliest days of our Republic. Four
               were painted by John Trumbull, including one depicting the moment in 1793 when George
               Washington resigned his commission, handing control of the Continental Army back to
               Congress.  Trumbull called this, one of the highest moral lessons ever given the
               world.  With this noble act, George Washington established the indispensable example
               of the peaceful transfer of power in our nation. 
               
            
            
               Standing on the West Front of the Capitol in 1981, President Ronald Reagan described
               it this way: 
               
            
            
               To a few of us here today, this is a solemn and most momentous occasion, and yet in
               the history of our nation it is a commonplace occurrence. The orderly transfer of
               authority as called for in the Constitution routinely takes place, as it has for almost
               two centuries, and few of us stop to think how unique we really are. In the eyes of
               many in the world, this every-4-year ceremony we accept as normal is nothing less
               than a miracle.
               
            
            
               Every President in our history has defended this orderly transfer of authority, except
               one. January 6, 2021 was the first time one American President refused his Constitutional
               duty to transfer power peacefully to the next. 
               
            
            
               In our work over the last 18 months, the Select Committee has recognized our obligation
               to do everything we can to ensure this never happens again.  At the outset of our
               investigation, we recognized that tens of millions of Americans had been persuaded
               by President Trump that the 2020 Presidential election was stolen by overwhelming
               fraud. We also knew this was flatly false, and that dozens of state and federal judges
               had addressed and resolved all manner of allegations about the election. Our legal
               system functioned as it should, but our President would not accept the outcome.
               
            
            
               What most of the public did not know before our investigation is this: Donald Trumps
               own campaign officials told him early on that his claims of fraud were false. Donald
               Trumps senior Justice Department officials
               each appointed by Donald Trump himself
               investigated the allegations and told him repeatedly that his fraud claims were false.
               Donald Trumps White House lawyers also told him his fraud claims were false. From
               the beginning, Donald Trumps fraud allegations were concocted nonsense, designed
               to prey upon the patriotism of millions of men and women who love our country.  
               
            
            
               Most Americans also did not know exactly how Donald Trump, along with a handful of
               others, planned to defeat the transfer of Presidential power on January 6th.  This
               was not a simple plan, but it was a corrupt one.  This report lays that plan out in
               detaila plan that ultimately had seven parts, anticipating that Vice President Pence,
               serving in his role as President of the Senate, would refuse to count official Biden
               electoral slates from multiple states.  We understood from the beginning that explaining
               all the planning and machinations would be complex and would require many hours of
               public presentations and testimony.  We also understood that our presentations needed
               to be organized into a series of hearings that presented the key evidence for the
               American public to watch live or streamed over a reasonable time period, rather than
               rely on second-hand accounts as reported by media organizations with their own editorial
               biases.  We organized our hearings in segments to meet that goal. Tens of millions
               of Americans watched. 
               
            
            
               Among the most shameful findings from our hearings was this: President Trump sat in
               the dining room off the Oval Office watching the violent riot at the Capitol on television.
               For hours, he would not issue a public statement instructing his supporters to disperse
               and leave the Capitol, despite urgent pleas from his White House staff and dozens
               of others to do so.  Members of his family, his White House lawyers, virtually all
               those around him knew that this simple act was critical.  For hours, he would not
               do it. During this time, law enforcement agents were attacked and seriously injured,
               the Capitol was invaded, the electoral count was halted and the lives of those in
               the Capitol were put at risk. In addition to being unlawful, as described in this
               report, this was an utter moral failureand a clear dereliction of duty.  Evidence
               of this can be seen in the testimony of his White House Counsel and several other
               White House witnesses.  No man who would behave that way at that moment in time can
               ever serve in any position of authority in our nation again.  He is unfit for any
               office.
               
            
            
               * * *
               
            
            
               In presenting all of the information in our hearings, we decided that the vast majority
               of our witnesses needed to be Republicans.  They were. We presented evidence from
               two former Trump Administration Attorneys General, a former White House Counsel, many
               former Trump-appointed White House, Justice Department, and Trump Campaign staff,
               a respected former conservative judge, the former Secretary of Labor, and many others.
               
            
            
               Like our hearings, this report is designed to deliver our findings in detail in a
               format that is accessible for all Americans.  We do so in an executive summary, while
               also providing immense detail for historians and others. We are also releasing transcripts
               and evidence for the public to review, consistent with a small number of security
               and privacy concerns.  A section of this report also explains the legal conclusions
               we draw from the evidence, and our concerns about efforts to obstruct our investigation.
               
               
            
            
               The Committee recognizes that this investigation is just a beginning; it is only an
               initial step in addressing President Trumps effort to remain in office illegally.
               Prosecutors are considering the implications of the conduct we describe in this report.
               As are voters. John Adams wrote in 1761, The very ground of our liberties is the
               freedom of elections. Faith in our elections and the rule of law are paramount to
               our Republic.  Election-deniersthose who refuse to accept lawful election resultspurposely
               attack the rule of law and the foundation of our country.
               
            
            
               As you read this report, please consider this:  Vice President Pence, along with many
               of the appointed officials who surrounded Donald Trump, worked to defeat many of the
               worst parts of Trumps plan to overturn the election.  This was not a certainty. 
               It is comforting to assume that the institutions of our Republic will always withstand
               those who try to defeat our Constitution from within. But our institutions are only
               strong when those who hold office are faithful to our Constitution. We do not know
               what would have happened if the leadership of the Department of Justice declared,
               as Donald Trump requested, that the election was corrupt, if Jeff Clarks letters
               to State Legislatures had been sent, if Pat Cipollone, Jeff Rosen, Richard Donoghue,
               Steve Engel and others were not serving as guardrails on Donald Trumps abuses. 
               
            
            
               Part of the tragedy of January 6
               th is the conduct of those who knew that what happened was profoundly wrong, but nevertheless
               tried to downplay it, minimize it or defend those responsible.  That effort continues
               every day. Today, I am perhaps most disappointed in many of my fellow conservatives
               who know better, those who stood against the threats of communism and Islamic terrorism
               but concluded that it was easier to appease Donald Trump, or keep their heads down.
               I had hoped for more from them. 
               
            
            
               The late Charles Krauthammer wrote, The lesson of our history is that the task of
               merely maintaining strong and sturdy the structures of a constitutional order is unending,
               the continuing and ceaseless work of every generation.  This task is unending because
               democracy can be fragile and our institutions do not defend themselves.  
               
            
            
               The history of our time will show that the bravery of a handful of Americans, doing
               their duty, saved us from an even more grave Constitutional crisis.  Elected officials,
               election workers, and public servants stood against Donald Trumps corrupt pressure.
               Many of our witnesses showed selfless patriotism and their words and courage will
               be remembered. 
               
            
            
               The brave men and women of the Capitol Police, Metropolitan Police and all the other
               law enforcement officers who fought to defend us that day undoubtedly saved lives
               and our democracy.
               
            
            
               Finally, I wish to thank all who honorably contributed to the work of the Committee
               and to this Report. We accomplished much over a relatively short period of time, and
               many of you sacrificed for the good of your nation. You have helped make history and,
               I hope, helped right the ship.
               
            
            
            
               
               
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  LIZ CHENEY
                  
                  Vice Chair
                  
               
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
               ENDNOTE
               1. 
                  
                  
                  Silas S. Canfield, History of the 21st Regiment Ohio Volunteer Infantry in the War
                  of the Rebellion (Vrooman, Anderson &amp; Bateman, printers, 1893), p. 10.
