            Foreword: Chairman
            
            
            
            
            
               We were told to remove our lapel pins. 
               
            
            
               At the start of every new Congress, House Members are presented with lapel pins. They
               are about the size of a quarter and carry a seal of a bald eagle. 
               
            
            
               On a routine day in the Capitol, there are thousands of tourists, advocates, and workers.
               Typically, the pins are an easy way to spot House members. 
               
            
            
               However, on January 6, 2021, the pin that once was a badge of honor and distinction
               turned into a bullseye. 
               
            
            
               On that day, tear gas fogged the air as gunfire rang out, and a violent mob crashed
               against the sealed doors. Concerned for our safety, Capitol Police officers told us
               that our lapel pins would make us a target for rioters. 
               
            
            
               As the Capitol Police rushed Members of Congress and staff to safety, that simple
               and, in context, sensible warning stuck with me. On January 6, 2021, my colleagues
               and I came to work with the intent of fulfilling our oaths of office and constitutional
               duty to carry out the peaceful transfer of power. We were the peoples representatives
               in the peoples House doing the peoples business. Sadly, on that day, the danger
               was too great for our work to continue and for us to remain in the Capitol. It was
               too dangerous to be identified as a representative of the American people. 
               
            
            
               Ive been a Member of the House for nearly 30 years. In that time, theres not a day
               that goes by that I dont feel a profound sense of duty and responsibility to the
               men and women who sent me to Congress to be their voice. After all, Im from a part
               of the country where, in my lifetime, Black people were excluded entirely from political
               processes. Jim Crow laws prevented my father from registering to vote, and tragically
               during his life, he never cast a vote. 
               
            
            
               For generations, the people in communities I represent have struggled to have their
               voices heard by their government. Therefore, I take my duties and responsibilities
               seriously, advocating for greater economic opportunity, robust infrastructure, better
               schools, and safer housing for my constituents. 
               
            
            
               However, that long struggle to overcome oppression and secure basic civil and human
               rights continues to be my highest priority. I am always mindful of the journey that
               brought me to Washington as a member of Congress to be the voice of the women and
               men of Mississippi. As a violent mob stormed the Capitol trying to take away peoples
               votes, rioters carried the battle flag from a failed rebellion of confederate states.
               This moment resonated deeply with me because of my personal history. Additionally,
               I continually think about the ongoing struggle to ensure justice and equality for
               all Americans. 
               
            
            
               The Capitol building itself is a fixture in our countrys history, of both good and
               bad. After all, this structure is among the most recognizable symbols of American
               democracy. The Capitols shining dome, topped with the statue of goddess Freedom,
               was built partially by the labor of enslaved people in the 18th and 19th centuries.
               Dark chapters of Americas history are written into the buildings marble, sandstone,
               and mortar. And yet in the halls and chambers of this building, leaders of courage
               passed amendments to our Constitution and enacted the laws that banned slavery, guaranteed
               equal rights under the law, expanded the vote, promoted equality, and moved our country,
               and her people, forward. The Capitol Building itself is a symbol of our journey toward
               a more perfect union. It is a temple to our democracy. 
               
            
            
               Those great moments in our history have come when men and women put loyalty to our
               country and Constitution ahead of politics and party. They did the right thing. The
               work of the Select Committee certainly originates from the same tradition. Our bipartisan
               membership has moved politics to the side and focused on the facts, circumstances,
               and causes of January 6th.
               
            
            
               When I think back to January 6th, after nearly a year and a half of investigation,
               I am frightened about the peril our democracy faced. Specifically, I think about what
               that mob was there to do: to block the peaceful transfer of power from one president
               to another based on a lie that the election was rigged and tainted with widespread
               fraud. 
               
            
            
               I also think about why the rioters were there, besieging the legislative branch of
               our government. The rioters were inside the halls of Congress because the head of
               the executive branch of our government, the then-President of the United States, told
               them to attack. Donald Trump summoned that mob to Washington, D.C. Afterward, he sent
               them to the Capitol to try to prevent my colleagues and me from doing our Constitutional
               duty to certify the election. They put our very democracy to the test. 
               
            
            
               Trumps mob came dangerously close to succeeding. Courageous law enforcement officers
               put their lives on the line for hours while Trump sat in the White House, refusing
               to tell the rioters to go home, while watching the assault on our republic unfold
               live on television. 
               
            
            
               When it was clear the insurrection would fail, Trump finally called off the mob, telling
               them, We love you. Afterward, Congress was able to return to this Capitol Building
               and finish the job of counting the Electoral College votes and certifying the election.
               
               
            
            
               This is the key conclusion of the Select Committee, all nine of us, Republicans and
               Democrats alike.
               
            
            
               But who knows what would have happened if Trumps mob had succeeded in stopping us
               from doing our job? Who knows what sort of constitutional grey zone our country would
               have slid into? Who would have been left to correct that wrong?
               
            
            
               As required by House Resolution 503, which established the Select Committee, weve
               explored in great detail the facts, circumstances, and causes of the attack. This
               report will provide new details that supplement those findings the committee already
               presented during our hearings.
               
            
            
               But there are some questions for which there are still no clear answers, even if all
               the facts, circumstances, and causes are brought to bear. The What If? questions.
               For the good of American democracy, those questions must never again be put to the
               test. So, while its important that this report lays out what happened, its just
               as important to focus on how to make sure that January 6th was a one-time eventto
               identify the ongoing threats that could lead us down that dangerous path againwith
               hopes and humble prayers that the committees work is carried on through corrective
               action.
               
            
            
               This report will provide greater detail about the multistep effort devised and driven
               by Donald Trump to overturn the 2020 election and block the transfer of power. Building
               on the information presented in our hearings earlier this year, we will present new
               findings about Trumps pressure campaign on officials from the local level all the
               way up to his Vice President, orchestrated and designed solely to throw out the will
               of the voters and keep him in office past the end of his elected term.
               
            
            
               As weve shown previously, this plan faltered at several points because of the courage
               of officials (nearly all of them Republicans) who refused to go along with it. Donald
               Trump appeared to believe that anyone who shared his partisan affiliation would also
               share the same callous disregard for his or her oath to uphold the rule of law. Fortunately,
               he was wrong. 
               
            
            
               The failure of Trumps plan was not assured. To the contrary, Trumps plan was successful
               at several turns. When his scheme to stay in power through political pressure hit
               roadblocks, he relentlessly pushed ahead with a parallel plan: summoning a mob to
               gather in Washington, DC on January 6th, promising things will be wild! 
               
            
            
               That mob showed up. They were armed. They were angry. They believed the Big Lie
               that the election had been stolen. And when Donald Trump pointed them toward the Capitol
               and told them to fight like hell, thats exactly what they did. 
               
            
            
               Donald Trump lit that fire. But in the weeks beforehand, the kindling he ultimately
               ignited was amassed in plain sight.
               
            
            
               Thats why as part of the Select Committees investigation, we took a hard look at
               whether enough was done to mitigate that risk. Our investigative teams focused on
               the way intelligence was gathered, shared, and assessed. We probed preparations by
               law enforcement agencies and security responses on the day of the attack. We followed
               the money, to determine who paid for a number of events in the run-up to the attack
               and to gain a clearer understanding of the way the former Presidents campaign apparatus
               cashed in on the big lie. And we pulled back the curtain at certain major social media
               companies to determine if their policies and protocols were up to the challenge when
               the President spread a message of violence and his supporters began to plan and coordinate
               their descent on Washington.
               
            
            
               The Select Committees conclusion on these mattersparticularly dealing with intelligence
               and law enforcementis consistent with our broader findings about the causes of January
               6th. Were agencies perfect in their preparations for January 6th and their responses
               as the violence unfolded? Of course not. Relevant oversight committees and watchdogs
               should continue to find efficiencies and improvements, some of which are laid out
               in Committees recommendations. 
               
            
            
               But the shortfall of communications, intelligence and law enforcement around January
               6th was much less about what they did or did not know. It was more about what they
               could not know. The President of the United States inciting a mob to march on the
               Capitol and impede the work of Congress is not a scenario our intelligence and law
               enforcement communities envisioned for this country. Prior to January 6th, it was
               unimaginable. Whatever weaknesses existed in the policies, procedures, or institutions,
               they were not to blame for what happened on that day.
               
            
            
               And so, when I think about the ongoing threatswhen I think about how to avoid having
               to confront those What-Ifs? in the futuremy concerns are less with the mechanics
               of intelligence gathering and security posture, as important as those questions are.
               My concerns remain first and foremost with those who continue to seek power at the
               expense of American democracy.
               
            
            
               What if those election officials had given in to Donald Trumps pressure? What if
               the Justice Department had gone along with Trumps scheme to declare the 2020 election
               fraudulent? What if the Vice President had tried to throw out electoral votes? What
               if the rioters bent on stopping the peaceful transfer of power hadnt been repelled?
               
            
            
               To cast a vote in the United States of America is an act of both hope and faith. When
               you drop that ballot in the ballot box, you do so with the confidence that every person
               named on that ballot will hold up their end of the bargain. The person who wins must
               swear an oath and live up to it. The people who come up short must accept the ultimate
               results and abide by the will of the voters and the rule of law. This faith in our
               institutions and laws is what upholds our democracy.
               
            
            
               If that faith is brokenif those who seek power accept only the results of elections
               that they winthen American democracy, only a few centuries old, comes tumbling down.
               
            
            
               Thats the danger. 
               
            
            
               Whats the solution?
               
            
            
               The Committee believes a good starting point is the set of recommendations we set
               forth in our report, pursuant to House Resolution 503. Driven by our investigative
               findings, these recommendations will help strengthen the guardrails of our democracy.
               
            
            
               Beyond what we recommend, in my view and as I said during our hearings, the best way
               to prevent another January 6th is to ensure accountability for January 6th. Accountability
               at all levels. 
               
            
            
               I have confidence in our Department of Justice and institutions at the state and local
               level to ensure accountability under the law. As this report is released, we see those
               processes moving forward.
               
            
            
               But preventing another January 6th will require a broader sort of accountability.
               Ultimately, the American people chart the course for our countrys future. The American
               people decide whom to give the reins of power. If this Select Committee has accomplished
               one thing, I hope it has shed light on how dangerous it would be to empower anyone
               whose desire for authority comes before their commitment to American democracy and
               the Constitution.
               
            
            
               I believe most Americans will turn their backs on those enemies of democracy.
               
            
            
               But some will rally to the side of the election deniers, and when I think about who
               some of those people are, it troubles me deep inside. White supremacists. Violent
               extremists. Groups that subscribe to racism, anti-Semitism, and violent conspiracy
               theories; those who would march through the halls of the Capitol waving the Confederate
               battle flag.
               
            
            
               These are people who want to take America backward, not toward some imagined prior
               greatness, but toward repression. These are people who want to roll back what weve
               accomplished. I believe that those who aligned with the scheme to overturn the election
               heeded Donald Trumps call to march on the Capitol because they thought taking up
               Donald Trumps cause was a way to advance their vile ambitions.
               
            
            
               That is why I did not remove my lapel pin on January 6th.
               
            
            
               Our country has come too far to allow a defeated President to turn himself into a
               successful tyrant by upending our democratic institutions, fomenting violence, and,
               as I saw it, opening the door to those in our country whose hatred and bigotry threaten
               equality and justice for all Americans.
               
            
            
               We can never surrender to democracys enemies. We can never allow America to be defined
               by forces of division and hatred. We can never go backward in the progress we have
               made through the sacrifice and dedication of true patriots. We can never and will
               never relent in our pursuit of a more perfect union, with liberty and justice for
               all Americans.
               
            
            
               I pray that God continues to bless the United States of America.
               
            
            
            
               
               
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  BENNIE G. THOMPSON
                  
                  Chairman
